The Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) wants to implement the country’s artificial intelligence (AI) road map next year, saying it would cover the agribusiness, manufacturing and services sectors.The goal is to make the Philippines an AI center for excellence in the region, according to Trade Secretary Ramon Lopez. He said they have been working with the Asian Institute of Management to develop the AI road map.
ADVERTISEMENT





The Philippines placed 50th in a global ranking called the Government Artificial Intelligence Readiness Index 2019. Created by Oxford Insights and the International Development Research Centre, the ranking covered 194 countries.In the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the country placed third after Singapore and Malaysia, which placed first and 22nd in the global ranking, respectively.FEATURED STORIES
BUSINESS
Shopee to downsize PH workforce

BUSINESS
Philippines’ Globe sells telecoms towers for $340M

BUSINESS
Ayala signs on Consing as chief; Zobel returns as ‘special adviser’
“Ultimately, we envision the Philippines as an AI center for excellence in the region by leveraging on our rich talent pool as well as our vibrant innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystem,” Lopez said in an online event about AI. “This will ensure our country’s competitiveness amid the rapidly changing times and provide opportunities for growth, especially for our workforce.”“In coming up with the road map, we’ve conducted interviews, consultations and focused-group discussions with stakeholders from government, industry and the academe across the country. We hope to start implementing the road map by 2021,” he added.



 Lopez said some companies have already integrated AI in their operations prior the pandemic.He said Bank of the Philippine Islands, BDO Unibank and brokerage firm BDO Nomura Securities Inc. invested in chatbots and AI to augment their customer service and streamline back-end processes.Del Monte Philippines Inc. also implemented a world-class plantation management system that uses drones to monitor the condition of a 25,000-hectare pineapple field in Bukidnon province, he added.Subscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer & other 70+ titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am & share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.We use cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. By continuing, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. To find out more, please click this link.
https://business.inquirer.net/309048/govt-to-implement-ai-road-map-in-2021