Robotic aids. Photos from Mayor Isko Moreno’s Facebook pageMANILA, Philippines — The city government of Manila has launched its Robotic Rehabilitation program for physical therapy at the Ospital ng Maynila Medical Center (OMMC).Manila Mayor Isko Moreno said the use of robotic aids will be for patients who have spinal cord injury, Parkinson’s disease, stroke, traumatic brain injury, and progressive intractable neuromuscular diseases.
ADVERTISEMENT





Moreno said in a Facebook post Tuesday, that the city government rented two sets of three Hybrid Assistive Limb (HAL) units through a partnership with Robocare Solutions, Inc.FEATURED STORIES
NEWSINFO
UP, other schools’ skipping of full face-to-face classes irks Pia Cayetano

NEWSINFO
Charges readied vs gov’t guard with P290-M deposits

NEWSINFO
LPA enters PAR, may develop into tropical depression
Good news, mga Batang Maynila! :)Inilunsad po ng Ospital ng Maynila Medical Center (OMMC) ngayong araw ang Robotics…Posted by Isko Moreno Domagoso on Tuesday, June 29, 2021



The HAL units operate through an “advanced robotic rehabilitation technology,” Moreno said. HAL “assists a physically challenged person to move and enables him or her to exert bigger motor energy than usual,” according to the website of Robocare Solutions, Inc.The advanced technology is considered as a system that “accelerates a motor learning of cerebral nerves.”“Patuloy pong pagsusumikapan ng inyong Pamahalaang Lungsod ang pagpapaunlad sa ating medical facilities and equipment,” Moreno said. (The local government will continue to improve its medical facilities and equipment.) — Faith Yuen Wei Ragasa, Inquirer traineeSubscribe to INQUIRER PLUS to get access to The Philippine Daily Inquirer & other 70+ titles, share up to 5 gadgets, listen to the news, download as early as 4am & share articles on social media. Call 896 6000.We use cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. By continuing, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. To find out more, please click this link.
https://newsinfo.inquirer.net/1453458/look-manila-introduces-robotic-aids-for-physical-therapy