The new American President has promised to bring back jobs which he claimed were lost to countries like China. Economists are saying he is wrong. America has lost more jobs because of advancing technology than because of off-shoring.A Silicon Valley venture capitalist agrees. In an opinion piece posted at Linked-in, Jake Saper explained that “the reality is that off-shoring is only an intermediate step; the end-game for most of these tasks is automation.“As technology improves, automation will increase and spread, regardless of Trump’s (or anyone else’s) promises to bring these jobs back. The reality is that the jobs of the future aren’t going to China or Mexico; they’re going to the cloud.”And it is not all bad. Automation is making goods and services cheaper to deliver. But yes, it also brings economic dislocation. “Many millions of workers will need to learn to do new jobs in new industries. Even if they stay in the same sector, the tasks they perform will likely look very different and require significant retraining.”Indeed, I was telling Amcham’s John Forbes, in the sidelines of a meeting of the Foundation for Economic Freedom (FEF) last week that technology, rather than Trump’s Fortress America policies, is the biggest threat to our BPO industry.Medical transcription is a good example. It was one of the leading services we offered that spawned one person BPO businesses for a while. It simply and quickly vanished as technology caught up with it.I see the low end BPO services like call centers being replaced by simple smart phone apps pretty soon. This is why we ought to feverishly train our young people to go up the value chain by acquiring skills in analytics or Big Data analysis. This is the only way we can save jobs and earn the foreign exchange the BPO industry now earns and hopefully, even more.The former country head of IBM Philippines, a Filipina by the name of Mariels Almeda Winhoffer saw this need. During her short assignment here, she was able to work out a college course curriculum with CHED that would train our students to do analytics. There were a number of big corporations that agreed to help. But the effort needs a lot more push from everybody.Last weekend, I got some bad news. Rep. Salceda sent me a copy of his resolution seeking an inquiry on the state of our preparedness to meet the digital challenge. Rep. Salceda reports that enrollments in Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Bachelor of Science in Information Technology programs have been declining since the school year 2005.Furthermore, the K-12 program has reduced enrollments for school year 2015 and 2016 and enrollments will not rebound until school year 2018. This has led to a 90 percent reduction in the quantity of Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Bachelor of Science in Information Technology graduates during the period 2019, 2020, and 2021.Rep. Salceda reports there are only 370,923 students enrolled in the course Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Bachelor of Science in Information Technology in both public and private schools excluding TESDA. In other words, only about 10 percent of the 3.66 million student population are preparing for the future.Worse, Rep. Salceda pointed out that the quality of those who took up baccalaureate courses in computer science is not even that good. He said the Philippine Software Industry Association used the PROXOR, a skills-based assessment tool developed at the Computer Science Department of the Carnegie Mellon University, and found out we have serious problems.They found out that sadly, 53 percent of Filipino students assessed could not code at entry-level programming versus 35 percent of global students; 43 percent of Filipino students assessed could code at entry-level programming skills versus 47 percent of global students; and only four percent of Filipino students assessed possessed excellent programming skills versus 18 percent of global students.Rep. Salceda found the current state grievously disturbing as it will undermine the competitiveness of the Philippines. This affects both our professionals and IT based enterprises in a market segment that is experiencing the fastest growth in jobs creation and a high increase in income. If left unchecked, this will deprive the Philippine economy of a major source of economic acceleration and inclusive growth, Salceda warns.Rep. Salceda wants the CHED and the House Committee on Information and Communication Technology to look into the state of the Philippine software industry. Salceda wants to see what could be done to advance programming as a career choice and formulate a measure to help schools upgrade their faculty skills and methods of instruction to remain globally competitive.We are clearly being left behind. I blame the shortsightedness of our leaders both in Congress and in the Executive branch. They go for populist measures like free college education in SCUs with no regard on the quality of courses offered and also the relevance of courses covered.The fact that just about 10 percent of college students are going for courses in information technology is troubling. This means our young people are still going for useless courses like mass communication or soon to be obsolete courses in business administration. And the content of the syllabi used and the manner of teaching most likely have not evolved enough to meet the challenge of the digital age.Indeed, if they want to give out free tuition, it should be on the condition the students take courses in science, math, IT, engineering, agriculture and no more mass comm and commerce courses… and good heavens, not law.If we know what we are doing, we would invest in strengthening our elementary and secondary education with emphasis in mathematics and science. A piece of paper saying someone has completed high school or even college means nothing unless enough relevant skills were learned while taking those courses.The new jobs being created in this digital world require more than the skills the call centers now require. A high school diploma and a couple of years of college will not be enough.Let me tell you that from someone who pursued journalism as a course and a career partly because I hated math, that there is no running away from math… even in journalism as it should be practiced today and in the future. We need to train teachers who will teach math by emphasizing the logic in it rather than the way we were taught by memorizing tables and formulas.All that money some politicians want to throw away in a free college tuition program at SUCs will not address our ability to meet the digital challenge. We are better off giving qualified students vouchers to pay for tuition in good private schools that are capable of training students in the various facets of information technology.TESDA can only do so much… essentially basic training in coding and other entry level stuff. We need to invest in quality higher level education if we are not to miss the boat as the tech world advances at a rather fast clip.I think that as always, Rep. Salceda can be depended upon to come up with the most relevant and useful observations. Hopefully, his fellow lawmakers will take his lead and seriously address this problem.The BPO industry is one of only two pillars of our economy today. The real threat to the BPO industry is not the threat of Donald Trump to force the return of off-shored jobs because the economics of doing so just doesn’t make sense.Rather, we should worry that we are not doing enough to prepare our future generations to have the necessary skills to thrive in the world where technical digital skills are as necessary as learning how to read and write. Again we have to play catch up but better to catch up now than to fall further and further behind.Boo Chanco’s e-mail address is [email protected]. Follow him on Twitter @boochancoPhilstar.com is one of the most vibrant, opinionated, discerning communities of readers on cyberspace. With your meaningful insights, help shape the stories that can shape the country. Sign up now!
https://www.philstar.com/business/2017/01/30/1666644/our-future-digital