
Home
 > 
Spotlight
Posted at Jun 10 2021 09:38 PMShare7 of top 10 rivers contributing to global plastic problem in oceans are in PH MANILA — The Philippines has contributed to 36 percent of the plastic waste that ended up in the world's oceans, with the Pasig River identified as the top plastic pollution source, a study has revealed.According to a peer-reviewed study published in the Science Advances journal, 466 rivers in the country alone are emitting 356,371 metric tons of "mismanaged plastic wastes" annually. It also said majority of the "largest emitting rivers" globally are located in Asia, contributing 81 percent, followed by Africa (8 percent), and South America (5.5 percent).Seven of the 10 rivers that contributed plastic pollution in our world's oceans, meanwhile, are located in the Philippines, according to the study. The researchers identified 1,656 rivers around the globe as top pollutants in the oceans.Most plastic wastes that found its way to the oceans came from smaller rivers, contrary to earlier studies which stated that it came from big and major rivers, analysis by Our World in Data said. The top 10 rivers that contributed to the plastic pollution are the following:  The Pasig River being classified as the ocean's top plastic emitter "paints a very different picture to earlier studies where it was Asia’s largest rivers – the Yangtze, Xi, and Huangpu rivers in China, and Ganges in India – that were dominant," the online publication added.WHY IS THIS RESEARCH IMPORTANT? The latest findings are relevant, according to the authors, as previous studies based their results on "simpler models of waste generation" in various river basins. These studies considered the mismanaged waste in each basin, population density there, and "correlative models of plastic concentrations in surface rivers." The latest research, on the other hand, accounted the amount of plastic that each country generates, how plastic waste is managed, and factors or probability that show how such wastes reach the oceans.FROM OUR ARCHIVES: The study indicated that mismanaged plastic waste near a river or the coast have high chances of ending up in the world's oceans. Those "far upstream" in a basin, meanwhile, have lower chances. For example, Jakarta and Manila have small, polluted rivers but contribute more plastic pollution compared to the Rhine or Seine rivers in Europe because they are upstream. "By considering these parameters, relatively small yet polluted river basins contribute proportionally more compared to large river basins with equal amounts of [plastic waste] generation within the river basins," the authors wrote. "This higher-resolution data shows that these factors that affect the probability of plastics not only reaching the river but then also reaching the ocean play a much more important role than the size of the river basin itself. This means many smaller rivers play a bigger role than we thought," Our World in Data analyzed. EXTREME CONCERN The Climate Change Commission described the findings as an "extreme concern" in terms of how plastic wastes are being managed in the Philippines. It called on the public to make "urgent efforts" in making sure that measures in tackling the country's plastic crisis. The agency strongly urges the public to use alternatives and adopt workable community-based solutions to shift away from the single-use, throwaway culture that currently dominates our market. "The agency strongly urges the public to use alternatives and adopt workable community-based solutions to shift away from the single-use, throwaway culture that currently dominates our market," their statement read. "The study suggested to have a targeted approach to drastically reduce the world’s river plastic emissions." The global plastic problem is compounded as the world reels from the COVID-19 pandemic, as the demand for plastic products also rose. The health crisis was also a headwind in global plastic recycling efforts, a report showed.Demand for plastic gloves, face shield as well as takeaway food packaging, among others, has intensified while syringes are also now in demand due to the global COVID-19 vaccine rollout on top of the usual plastic wastes consumed on a day to day basis. WATCH: SharePorsche share price set at 82.5 euros for mega IPOSeptember 29, 2022Pinoy martial arts na arnis sumisikat sa The Netherlands September 29, 2022Hurricane Ian pounds Florida as monster Category 4 stormSeptember 29, 2022Presyo ng gulay mula sa mga binagyong lugar tumaasSeptember 29, 2022TINGNAN: Trak sumabit sa mga kable sa Katipunan Ave.September 29, 2022Apple removes Russian social network VK from app storeSeptember 29, 2022Tindahan ng medical supplies sa Maynila, nasunogSeptember 29, 2022James Bond's Aston Martin sells for nearly £3 millionSeptember 29, 2022“Ginto” exhibit, nagbukas sa IstanbulSeptember 29, 2022Maturity will be Cignal's advantage vs. Sta. Elena in finalsSeptember 29, 2022Bahagi ng highway sa Davao City, binahaSeptember 29, 2022Storm Luis further intensifies as it nears PAR limitSeptember 29, 2022In wealthy Dubai, poor get free bread from machinesSeptember 29, 2022Mahigit P7.8-M halaga ng umano'y droga nasabat sa BacoorSeptember 29, 2022Ilang artists na magtatanghal sa 1MX London 2022, dumating na sa UKSeptember 29, 2022Myanmar beauty queen lands in Canada, granted asylumSeptember 29, 2022US finds monkeypox vaccine highly effective in early dataSeptember 29, 2022SEA Games: POC planning workaround for unfamiliar sportsSeptember 29, 2022What Heart replied to viral TikTok 'prayer' vs. cheatingSeptember 29, 2022Remulla thinks no need to respond to ICC prosecutorSeptember 29, 2022© 2022 ABS-CBN Corporation. All Rights Reserved.AboutCareersPrivacyTermsContact UsAdvertise With Us
https://news.abs-cbn.com/spotlight/06/10/21/philippines-global-plastic-problem-study